Cloud tools if needed: 
Prepare and build your solution
Review the judging criteria to understand what judges will be looking for in your submitted solution.
 
It's also good to review the Offical Rules. You must build your solution during the duration of the hackathon, so use this time to collaborate with your teammates and build your proof-of-concept as well as your demonstration and solution write-up (see “Submission deliverables” below).
 
Note: Data from public websites may be used, if the terms allow for commercial use, but please keep a list of the websites you use. Do not use any client data, data containing personal information, or data obtained from social media.
 
Submission deliverables
Review this list carefully before you submit your project. Assemble and submit each of these deliverables by 10:00 AM ET on August 30, 2026. You can submit deliverables in the My Team page of this site.
 
☐ Deliverable: Video demonstration of the team's solution
Record a demo of your solution and share the URL, making sure the video link is publicly accessible. Three minutes is the maximum length. Judges will not watch more than 3 minutes of your video. In the video, briefly introduce the specific issue you are looking to improve or address, but also leave at least 90 seconds to show your solution in action, on screen, and demonstrate how it works. Clearly demonstrate how you utilized IBM Bob in your solution. Include narration to describe what you are demonstrating. Creativity is encouraged! The judges will see lots of screen-sharing videos, so think about how your video will stand out and catch the judges' attention with a compelling, high-quality presentation.
 
☐ Deliverable: Written problem and solution statement
Describe your project in 500 words or less. Include the specific problem or challenge that your solution is designed to address. Describe what your solution is, including target users, how they would interact with the solution, and why the solution is creative and unique. Provide clear details on how your project effectively and efficiently address the stated issue in a new way the judges have never seen before.
 
☐ Deliverable: Written statement on how IBM Bob was used to build your projectt
Provide clear and specific details on how and where your team used Bob. If applicable, also describe how your project uses IBM watsonx.ai or watsonx Orchestrate. Be specific.
 
☐ Deliverable: Code repository, including IBM Bob task session summary screenshots
Any code or files you created for the project, including those where Bob assisted in the development, should be uploaded and organized in a GitHub repository (or other source control system such as GitLab or Bitbucket) for your project:
 
Share the publicly accessible link to your repository.
Your repository should also include each team member's screenshots of IBM Bob task session summaries for your project (See the hackathon guide for steps on how to capture these).
Participants may use the GitHub IBM Hackathon repository template for their project. Refer to the quickstart instructions to learn how to use the template. The template includes ".gitignore" and ".bobignore" files to help prevent the accidental exposure of credentials and other sensitive information.
Important: If IBM Cloud credentials (API keys, passwords, or other sensitive secrets) are detected in your repository through IBM security monitoring, your IBM Cloud account may be suspended immediately. To avoid account suspension during the hackathon, do not expose any IBM Cloud credentials in your repository. Use the provided repository template, as it includes safeguards designed to help prevent accidental credential exposure.
How to submit your project
Within the Submissions section of your My Team page:
 
Under Team Members confirm that the list of emails is correct. If changes to your team need to be made, your Team Lead can first add or remove team members from the Team Members subtab of the My Team page, and then return to Submissions to continue. Reminder: Each participant may only be part of and submit as part of one team.
Enter a publicly accessible URL to share your team's video demonstration.
Enter your team's written “problem and solution statement” in the provided text field, in 500 words or less.
In the provided text field, enter your team's written statement explaining how you used IBM Bob (and optionally, IBM watsonx.ai and/or watsonx Orchestrate) in your project.
Enter a publicly accessible URL to share your team's code repository, which should include your exported IBM Bob task session summary screenshots.
When you have added all of your deliverables and completed all required fields, click the Submit button. Your whole team will receive a confirmation email shortly after you submit.
AI Submission Advisor
Within your team's submission confirmation email, look for feedback on your submission, automatically generated by IBM Bob and watsonx. This advisor checks if:
 
Your video effectively communicates how your project addresses the challenge theme, demonstrates the working solution, and clearly shows how IBM Bob contributed to the implementation.
Your written problem and solution statement clearly explains a problem aligned with the challenge theme, describes your solution and its technical approach, and demonstrates how it effectively addresses the stated problem in a creative and impactful way.
Your IBM Bob and IBM watsonx usage statement provides clear, specific evidence of how IBM Bob contributed to building your project (and how IBM watsonx.ai or watsonx Orchestrate were integrated into the solution if you chose to use either).
Your code repository is publicly accessible, contains the implementation of your solution and related project artifacts, and includes IBM Bob task session summary screenshots that clearly document how IBM Bob was used throughout the development process.
For any areas that may require further attention:
 
They will be marked with a "Needs a second look" flag
Additional details and recommendations on how to strengthen your final submission will be provided in the Areas you may want to review (BETA) section of the email. Note: This as section is currently in Beta, the AI may occasionally produce inaccurate or incomplete observations.
* Note: Video feedback is available for videos hosted on common platforms, such as YouTube, Vimeo, and Google Drive, provided the video is publicly accessible. If your video is hosted on another platform, it can still qualify for judging but you will not receive automated feedback on your video.
 
This feedback will not influence judging, but it is provided as a courtesy to you to highlight potential risks and help you improve the clarity and completeness of your submission.
 
Ultimately use your best judgement; you can use the feedback to decide if you want to revise and resubmit your project before the hackathon deadline.
 
You can save multiple draft submissions as needed up until the challenge deadline. Keep in mind if you submit too close to the hackathon deadline, you may not have enough time to revise and resubmit, so plan accordingly. If your team needs to revise any item in your submission, upload a new submission by resubmitting all deliverables, not just those that you have changed. The most recent submission entry from your team will be the one considered your official submission.
 
Final submissions are due by 10:00 AM ET on August 30, 2026.
 
All work for your hackathon submission must be finished by the deadline. Your team should not continue to make changes to any hackathon deliverables like your video or code repository after the deadline, or your project may be disqualified from judging.
 
Your individual access to IBM Bob will end on September 1, but after the hackathon closes, we'll send you information on how to set up your own free 30-day trial. Your team's IBM Cloud account will also close by end of day on September 1. If you would like to save your work, be sure to do so before then. The deactivation of your accounts will not impact your judging score. If you have clearly demonstrated your solution through the required deliverables, your submission will be considered complete.
 
Learn more about the IBM TechXchange Conference 2026.
 
Share your participation on social media!
We would love to have you share your participation in the hackathon on LinkedIn and your other social media accounts. Use the hashtags #watsonxHackathon and share “I participated in the IBM TechXchange 2026 Pre-conference Dev Day Hackathon”. You can even share the link to your project video demonstration to show off what your team put together.



